=== audio library

This is a ruby gem to rapidly extract the id3 tags from a large music collection.

The eventual goal is to used this to create a tool to clean up tags and to use instead of the songbird database in the songbirdsh gem.

== Development prerequisites

Various tools seem to be able to get the tags to varying extents.  Change the class in audio_library.rb to switch to a different implementation.

= id3lib

Although this project has been discontinued, it seems to be the fastest way to extract tags.  Most files generally seem to not contain a duration unfortunately.  The other tools try to estimate the duration based on the file size and bit rate.

  brew install id3lib

= ffmmpeg

  brew install ffmpeg

= exiftool

  brew install exiftool
  
== Future plans

* change rescanner to rescan tags when any are missing from csv
* create class that implements required methods for songbirdsh
* scan entire directory hierarchy first and then provide time estimates when the process will be finished
* perhaps take a look at some other tools - id3tool, libid3tag, jaudiotagger (with jruby)
* the following issue (processing a single file with ffmpeg):

Processed 16000 audio files in 1033.450709 seconds (0.0645906693125 per file)
sh: -c: line 0: unexpected EOF while looking for matching ``'
sh: -c: line 1: syntax error: unexpected end of file
Processed 17000 audio files in 1092.829656 seconds (0.06428409741176472 per file)

* rename songbirdsh
* use a ~/.something file to store preferences (ie. which extraction tool to use, songbird library provider, etc.)
* add cardigan cards instead of this thing
* store library data somewhere in ~/.
* add ability to store multiple libraries (which may or may not be available)